♪♪
Something new
and exciting, please.
We've done everything.
Wouldn't it be
a sad situation
if that were true?
-Oh...
-You got somethin'?
-I predict that
the next thing you say
is gonna be ridiculous.
We should have
our Sweet Sixteen now!
-I'm right.
-Why?
Well, because, you see,
I just turned 15
and you're eight.
(sing-songy)
I have all my big teeth.
We can't have a Sweet Sixteen.
-I didn't get my bat mitzvah.
-You're not Jewish.
I didn't get
my quinceañera .
You're not Latina.
I want something!
I want something now, Daddy!
No, still me.
What can you do for me?
I can tell you it's not time
for a Sweet Sixteen yet.
It's all so random.
We should be able
to have it any time.
They just call it
"Sweet Sixteen"
because of suh suh.
No, if it was
a suh suh thing,
they could have called it
"Sweet Seventeen" just as much.
No, they could not.
"Sweet Sixteen," you're sweet.
"Seventeen," who cares already?
Ooh.
-You got somethin'?
-Ooh!
I predict the next thing
that you say is gonna
be amazing!
See, that right there
is the difference
between me and you.
What if we did
suh suh suh?
Oh!
Impossible!
No one's ever done
the suh suh suh before.
-What is it?
-"Surprise Sweet Sixteen."
(whispers)
Surprise.
When we talk,
magic happens.
-Both: ♪ La, la, la, la,
la, la, la, la, la ♪
-(theme music plays)
-That's right.
-Uh-huh.
♪ I've been waiting ♪
♪ For a day like this to come ♪
♪ Struck like lightning ♪
♪ My heart's beating
like a drum ♪
♪ On the edge of something
wonderful ♪
♪ Face-to-face with changes ♪
♪ What's it all about? ♪
♪ Life is crazy ♪
♪ But I know
I can work it out ♪
♪ 'Cause I got you
to live it with me ♪
♪ I feel all right ♪
♪ I'm gonna take on the world ♪
♪ Light up the stars ♪
♪ I've got
some pages to turn ♪
♪ I'm singing "Go-o-o" ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Take on the world
Take on the world ♪
♪ Take on the world ♪
♪ Take on the world
Take on the world ♪
♪ Take on the world ♪
In every life,
there are landmarks.
What are the historical markers
of our lives?
Most important first.
-Sweet Sixteen.
-No.
Arbor Day!
No. Even Sweet Sixteen is
more important than Arbor Day.
-Sweet Sixteen.
-Arbor Day!
No, most important first.
Sweet Sixteen is the doorway
to our driver's license.
Arbor Day is the doorway
to nobody knows what it is.
And college.
You're going without me?
No, you're going to
the little one next door.
Yay!
-Farkle?
-Birth.
Okay, let's go with that
because it's not what you said.
What's next?
I win the Nobel Prize
for Physics.
Smackle, we just got born.
Okay. I'll wait.
-Our first birthday.
-Okay, birth.
So then, we celebrate
our birth every year.
What's next?
I win the Nobel Prize
for Physics.
Not yet.
Get to it!
Our first steps,
our first words,
our first day
at school.
-(students groan)
-Yay!
The day I met Riley and Maya
and Smackle and Lucas and Zay.
Okay, so we get born.
We learn to walk and talk.
We meet our friends.
Then what?
You know.
Then we grew up and we're not
little kids anymore.
And it went by fast,
didn't it?
It goes by very fast,
Mr. Babineaux.
Your adventures
were my adventures
not very long ago.
Then we have our various
coming of age ceremonies.
Oh, you mean like...
I want us to have
a Surprise Sweet Sixteen party.
Riley, how is it a surprise
if we all know about it?
'Cause we're gonna have it now
while we're all 15
and you're 24.
Okay, everybody,
make a big surprise face.
(students gasp)
Yeah, don't do that.
And anyway,
it doesn't matter.
It doesn't count.
I mean, it must have been
a "Sweet Sixteen" for a reason.
Why? I don't care.
Well, now actually,
Zay brings up
an interesting point.
No, I don't.
Riley has an instinct
to accelerate the clock.
Why do you think that is?
Because I want a party.
Try again.
Well, 'cause I agree with Zay.
We are growing up
very fast.
What? You agree with me?
Yeah.
(gasps)
Okay. Yeah, that was fun.
Hey, but watch
this surprise face.
(gasps)
Okay, only one was fun.
Okay, so there it is, freshmen.
You guys are all gonna be
16 or 17 in your junior year.
You're gonna be thinkin'
about where to go to college.
Stockholm University
so I can be nearby
to pick up my Nobel Prize.
-We'll talk.
-We'll talk in Swedish.
Okay, Smackle has
her life worked out.
What about the rest of you?
Are you better off
letting life surprise you
or is there a way to be ready
for whatever is gonna happen?
How would that be possible?
By looking at the landmarks
of our lives so far.
Have they prepared you
for what's gonna come next?
Happy Sweet Sixteen, everybody.
Your assignment is to tell me
what's gonna happen next.
Okay, let's pretend
that we've finished
our sophomore year
and we're juniors now.
What's changed?
I don't understand
what could be calculated
by projecting the future.
You and Maya still best friends?
-Better than now.
-Absolutely.
-That is speculation.
-Speculation is not scientific.
We can't learn
anything this way.
You and I still together?
-I hope so.
-Both: Huh.
Riley's confidence
in her relationship with Maya
is far stronger
than her confidence in Lucas.
-Well, what can
we take from this?
-I end up with Lucas.
-Smackle!
-Yeah, like yelling at me
is gonna change
the course of destiny.
You're not confident in us?
I'm hopeful for us.
But Maya?
Both:
We're forever.
-I believe 'em.
-So do I.
It's what gives me hope
for all of us.
So, regular friends
are stronger relationships
than boyfriends
and girlfriends.
Or are those types
of relationships so new to us,
we simply don't
understand them yet?
Well, maybe that's why
we take up a whole lot
of high school trying
to figure them out.
I'm hopeful for us too, Riley.
What is that?
They know there's vulnerability
in that kind of relationship,
-and yet that happened.
-What is that?
-What just happened there?
-Feelings.
How are we supposed
to measure feelings?
How are we supposed to know
what we're gonna feel
when we're juniors?
What kind of dumb-head
assignment is this?
Get out the way.
She gonna explode.
I'm gonna fail
this assignment!
this assignment.
Click.
Wh-- what happened?
She crashed.
-What, like a computer?
-Yeah, it's like
the little rainbow wheel
is spinning. She'll be back.
-Lucas, can I talk
to you for a second?
-Sure.
Maya?
What if we don't care
about our boyfriends
as much as we care
about each other?
No, we'll just care
for them in a different way.
What different way?
Less.
Why do we make friendships
if they're only gonna go away?
Why do they have to go away?
'Cause we're supposed to
think like juniors now.
So? What's gonna be different?
(mouthing)
Well, right now, there are
millions of juniors
all over the world deciding
what college they want
to get into.
And even though they say
that they're all gonna
be friends forever, they're all
going some place, Maya.
We're going to
the same college, right?
-Riley--
-We're going to
the same college.
What if I need to go to Europe
or something to study Art?
You will, so get into
the same college as me.
No, I won't.
We're supposed to
think like juniors.
That's when we know
we don't stay together forever.
Sweet Sixteen
isn't sweet at all.
They lied to us.
Okay, you two are
the strangest people alive.
-Press any key to continue.
-Never mind.
What'd I miss?
Well, Riley and Maya
are more important
than Riley and Lucas.
I don't think
anybody missed that.
I like your glasses.
Oh. I just got 'em.
Oh, uh, and we probably
won't be together
after high school anymore.
Oh.
Click.
All right, will you stop that?
Who does that?
Both:
Click.
-Listen.
-Yeah?
-Look.
-Listen.
-I don't want to
get old here, Farkle.
I just want you to know
that if Smackle has
feelings for you--
-Farkle--
-Shmeh.
-I would step aside.
-Farkle--
Shmeh!
It's true.
Smackle and I are
people of science.
We don't do well with feelings.
If it's you she wants,
I would step aside.
I learned that from Riley.
You and Riley have
the deepest feelings
I have ever known.
Thanks.
And if Smackle is into you,
I-- I won't take it out on you.
I'll just...
I'll just clone you
and do terrible things
to the clone.
Are we all gonna be okay?
We always will be.
How do you know?
She believes in us, Farkle.
I mean, yeah,
but things change.
The natural evolution
of all beings is to grow
and change.
Hey, I know this.
What kind of teacher is
your father supposed to be?
I'm going to fail
this assignment
and he's gonna cost me
my Nobel Prize.
Does he know
what he's doing?
Yes, he does.
Finches and mockingbirds,
his boat was The Beagle,
and for extra credit,
Galapagos.
Charles Darwin.
How do you know
the theory of evolution?
Because I failed it.
I know it because I failed it,
but he made sure I knew it
because he knew
I'd need it someday.
He's a great teacher.
He's the best there is.
And like always,
he's just trying
to get us to evolve.
Tell us about Cory and Topanga.
-What about 'em?
-How they happened.
How'd you make such
an important decision so young?
-Do we know what we're doing?
-What's gonna happen to us?
What if we mess up
our entire lives?
-What if everything changes?
-You asked two questions.
You can ask two questions.
-No, you ruined the whole thing.
-Sorry, let's start over.
No!
You're nuts because
your father gave you
an assignment?
-What do you think?
-What's the assignment?
I wanted a Surprise
Sweet Sixteen party now.
Diabolical.
So, we're supposed to
be 16 and think about
what happens next.
-And you're scared.
-Well, sure.
What if Maya and I don't get
into the same college?
Why would that happen?
What happened to all
those A's you've been getting?
I only got
one A in Spanish.
You're not getting
into a good college
-with only one A in Spanish!
-You loved me once.
So, I'm going
to a lesser school
so we can always
be together.
Uh-huh. And now you say...
-Okay.
-Both: Yay!
No!
What kind of an idiot gives up
a top school for someone else?
You.
You gave up Yale for Dad.
Look, Topanga! I went in
with two different socks!
You know why? I woke up
this morning and thought,
"What's the one thing
in my life that I haven't done?"
Well, now I've done it.
It's been a complete life.
(groans)
Oh, yeah, I...
I gave up Yale
for your dad.
I call a do over.
Really?
If I had my life
to do over again,
I would do
exactly the same thing.
So...
it turns out today
wasn't Crazy Hair Day
at school at all.
You know what it was?
Photo Day.
And in other news, today,
I learned the word "wedgie."
You can make
all the plans you want.
The truth is, we don't know
what's going to happen.
And your two-socks-wearing
father knows that too.
So, why would he give you
this assignment?
He wants us to look
at the landmarks of our lives.
He said maybe
they can prepare us
for what comes next.
He's right.
That, you can do.
I was a unique, young girl,
I met a boy
named Cory Matthews...
I kept some of my friends,
some I don't see
so much of anymore,
I'm an excellent attorney,
my husband is
an excellent teacher,
we have two children
that we love.
What we do
and who you are is
how we contribute to society.
So, looking back
at the landmarks
of my life,
here's what I know.
No.
No do over.
Life knows we're forever,
doesn't it?
Hi.
Hello.
There are lots
of empty seats around,
and yet you are
sitting very close.
Oh. Does that bother you?
Well, as you know,
I don't like to be
sat right next to
except for Farkle.
You have very nice eyes.
Okay. They formed in utero,
starting with my optic nerves
and then my retinas.
So it's okay
with you if I just
stay right here, right?
Well, you know,
Farkle's not here
and you're invading
my personal space like a Hun.
If Farkle was here,
you would be making a joke
like I was hitting on you.
You know what?
Maybe everything will stay
exactly the way it is
and 16 will be just as sweet
as all of our other years.
And now,
here we are.
Finally alone.
And there is something
I want to admit to you.
-You're hot for my mind?
-No.
You mean you only see me
as a steaming cauldron
of woman?
Okay.
Lucas Friar, my heart
belongs to someone else.
-Say it louder.
-Must I torture you?
Would you please?
I just always say those things
because I guess
I'm a little insecure
that Farkle doesn't really,
really like me as much
as he says, so I guess I'm just
trying to protect myself.
You don't have to, Isadora.
I like you exactly
as much as I say.
It's possible
I might even like you
more than "like you."
I don't know. Right now,
that's just a hypothesis.
Based on what?
(sighs)
Should have seen
how nervous he was
from back here.
I think we're a perfect match.
-You do?
-Yeah.
Lucas knew how
you really felt,
but I wasn't sure.
-You can go now.
-No, stay where you are.
-Smackle.
-You may proceed.
Lucas set this up
so I could know how
you really felt.
Now you know.
Define "I might even like you
more than 'like you.'"
I like you so much
that when I'm 16,
I'll tell you to go study
in Sweden if you really want to.
No. I'm going to
stupid Princeton with you.
Sweden? Princeton?
What's the difference?
They're going away.
Why do people become friends
if it's not going to be forever?
I don't want
a Sweet Sixteen.
You don't?
No.
I don't want any surprises.
I don't want anybody
to go anywhere.
I don't want anything
to happen to us at all.
But isn't that
the opposite of life?
I don't care.
Nobody move.
Nobody move at all.
You heard her.
Okay, juniors,
how are your lives going?
What's next for you?
Smarkle.
Well, Smackle and I have applied
early decision to Princeton
and I have a pretty good feeling
we're gonna get in.
Is that because
you've maintained
your excellent academic record?
Yes, and because
in the last two years,
we've cured
the common cold,
invented an
alternative fuel source,
solved global warming,
and-- (sneezes)
Ah, crud.
So, I take it Farkle
and Smackle are still together.
-Yeah.
-We have feelings
for each other
we must figure out.
Because we're
people of science.
It may take forever.
-Good.
Both:
Thank you.
We are Smarkle.
(students clap)
All right.
Lucas and Zay.
Well, I think that
the big news is that
Lucas peaked
in his sophomore year
and now it's Zay time.
Hm. This is not
what we decided on.
It is not my fault
that you peaked.
-You're over.
-Yeah? What happened to me?
Know, you say that a lot now,
where you're just like,
"What happened to me?"
and I pull you around
in your little red wagon.
You're like,
"What happened to me?"
and I'm like,
"I don't know!
It's Zay time.
Stop bringing me down."
So, I'm guessing
you've managed
to remain friends.
That'll never change.
I used to have
a little red wagon.
You used to pull me
around in it.
Hey, if things
ever do go bad...
I'll be there.
Thank you, gentlemen.
So when did things
start going bad?
Oh, the triangle took
all the life out of you.
Yeah.
Riley, Maya?
We looked at all
of the landmarks
of our lives.
We don't really have
any control over being born.
We just know that
we're real lucky to be here.
And if we get even luckier,
we climb in through
the right window.
Yeah.
We examined all
of the landmarks
of our lives
from the very beginning
right up until wanting
a Surprise Sweet Sixteen party.
And we found they all
have one thing in common.
They all put us
in a world of people,
and what we do control
is the people that we want
to keep in our lives,
and a party at any age
is just another chance
to be all together.
So, I take it
you're not ready
for your Sweet Sixteen.
No.
Maybe never.
I didn't want us
to go anywhere.
I wanted us to sit still.
But that's not life.
We're freshmen.
Exactly where
we're supposed to be.
We should enjoy this now.
That's life.
Sweet Sixteen will be
a lot sweeter when we are 16.
But for right now,
we're protected.
We know exactly
where we're gonna be
for the next three years.
-So, no party.
-No, of course party.
What our landmarks
have shown us is that
we picked the right friends
and we'll always be together.
Life loves us.
Hope isn't for
suckers after all.
And that's the best thing
to celebrate any time.
Party time!
Does it have to be
at our house?
Life loves our house.
(door closes)
What happened?
Party doesn't have to
be at our house.
Tell her no, Dad!
It just happened. Just happened
right in front of Auggie.
He heard everything.
Mom?
You know,
I was a good student.
I got a good job
at a prestigious law firm,
I moved up fast,
I got promoted.
I always wanted to be partner.
They just named me partner.
Oh. Double party.
I am so proud
of you, Topanga.
Tell her no, Dad.
Why would I tell her no?
They just named me the head
of our London office.
Ask her how she's going
to do that from here.
Ask her because
she won't answer me.
I am so proud
of you, Topanga.
Oh, yeah.
I'm so proud
of you too, Mom.
Congratulations.
I thought life loves us.
Surprise.
What did you tell them, Mom?
Riley--
Wait.
Okay.
I told them that
I needed some time
to think about it.
I told them that
I needed to talk it over
with my family.
What's to talk about?
I'm not going to London.
I don't even speak the language.
Uh, did they offer you
a raise in salary?
Long live the Queen!
Hip hip! Wot wot!
Elton John!
Chimney sweeps!
Crumpets!
Girls, this decision has
nothing to do with money.
Of course it doesn't.
Girls...
listen, I know
this is difficult.
Don't worry.
We're gonna make
the right decision.
Mom... there's a decision?
Yeah.
Girls, I'm sorry,
but there's a decision.
(theme music playing)
♪ I feel all right ♪
♪ I'm gonna take on the world ♪
♪ Light up the stars ♪
♪ I've got some pages to turn ♪
♪ I'm singing,
"Go-o-o" ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Take on the world ♪